[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Your reality is created
by your thought about it,
and by the word you speak and
the actions that you undertake.
Therefore, the
first thing we have
to eliminate from our mind in
the process of manifestation
is we have to eliminate any
thought that we do not now
have, or, in the
words of some people,
that we somehow
can't have, there's
some reason why
we can't have what
it is we choose to experience
in life, but rather to say,
with all the faith
we can muster,
not only can I have that,
I have that right now.
>> Wouldn't it be wonderful to
have a conversation with God?
Well, we have someone here
today who actually has done it,
and is going to teach us
maybe how you can do it.
And of course, for
the one or two people
who don't know who
that is, that's
Neale Donald Walsch, who has
completed his third volume
of "Conversations with God."
Welcome.
>> Thank you, Corrine.
It's nice to be here.
>> We are so thrilled
to have you back.
>> Well, it's good to be back.
Thank you.
>> Now, there are one or two
people in the audience who
don't know the history of
how you happened to have
a conversation with God.
>> Well, it all started
[INAUDIBLE] in 1992,
when I reached a low point in
my life and I called out to God.
And I asked the
kinds of questions
that we all ask at
times like that.
What does it take
to make life work?
What have I done
to deserve a life
of such continuing struggle?
And help me to understand
how to get from where
I am to where I want to be.
And in this case, much
to my shock and surprise,
God answered.
My calling out came in the
form of an angry letter
that I wrote in the
middle of the night.
At four o'clock
in the morning, I
woke up with great frustration,
marched out to the living room,
where I was sitting
in the living room,
and I saw a yellow legal
pad on the coffee table,
so I began to write an angry
letter to the universe with all
those angry questions.
>> How could you do this to me?
After all I've done for you.
>> Right.
>> And there I was, sitting
in my pool of anger,
when I heard a voiceless
voice that said to me, Neale,
do you really want answers
to all of these questions,
or are you just venting?
And I wrote-- I can
recall the moment--
I am venting, but if you have
answers, I'd sure as heck
like to know what they are.
And then I was given the
answers to all those questions
I had written, and to questions
I hadn't even thought about.
And as I began hearing those
answers, really in my head,
as a voiceless voice, other
questions came up for me.
And I began to answer
those questions, as well.
And the result was--
that's the short story--
a wonderful 3 and
1/2 year dialogue
which has produced an
extraordinary trilogy of books,
never really
intended to be books.
It was always a private
process going on with me
in the privacy of my own
heart and my own soul
and my own mind.
But it wound up turning into a
series of best-selling books.
>> The first book,
"Conversations with God,"
surprised everyone.
>> Yes.
>> Because it remained,
and I think still remains,
on the bestseller list
after a couple of years.
>> Yes.
For over 95 weeks.
>> Why are people so interested
in what God has said to you?
>> Because, Corrine, I think
that people, first of all,
share my experience,
to some degree,
my experience of frustration
with life as it's now being
lived.
Not that all of us
are having a bad time,
but we see the world in a
place that we don't think
it should be, given all of
our own best intentions.
So the universe,
the world has begun
to lose patience with itself.
We can see that this is
not the way it ought to be,
the way life is now being
lived on our planet.
And that frustration has driven
the engine of their experience
of searching.
If that isn't the
way, then what is?
And of course, if
somebody writes a book
and said I had a conversation
with God about this,
that's pretty hard to resist.
So people wind up
reading the book.
And then they, much
to their astonishment,
agree was 95% of what
they're reading there.
Nobody should agree with
all of it, of course.
I'd be real upset if they did.
I'd be a little bit
frightened of that.
But people are finding a
large place of agreement
with most of what they're
reading in these three books.
So I think what's happening
is that people have come
to the same conclusions
I've come to,
that there's a better way.
And the book outlines what
those better ways might be.
So the books have become,
as a result, very popular.
>> What are we
doing wrong, Neale?
>> Everything, just about.
It starts, Corrine, with our
understanding of who we are
and how it is for
us as human beings.
And the largest misunderstanding
is that there's more than one
of us in the room.
People think that there's
you and there's me,
that there's him
and there's her,
that there's that
country and that country,
and they don't really understand
that there's only one of us.
So the basic misunderstanding,
the first cultural myth
that drives the engine
of our experience
in the wrong
direction is the myth
that we're somehow
separate from each other.
That myth is born in a
larger misunderstanding
that we're somehow
separate from God.
Both statements are untrue.
But when we start from
such a place of untruths,
from such a lack of
understanding, all of the other
experiences that we
co-create are also
sent in the wrong direction.
They're experiences
that don't get us
where we say we want to go.
The result is we have
a human race that's
saying it wants to go one
place, and is really winding up
in quite another place.
We don't know why.
We don't know how we got here.
We look over our shoulder and
say, how did this all happen?
We can't even really
put it all together.
But we know how
to get out of it.
The way to get out of it is
to change our idea that we're
separate from each other.
There are several
other cultural myths
that have also been
mistaken and come
under the heading of
what we're doing wrong.
The second one is that we
think that there is not
enough of all the
good things in life.
We believe in a life of
insufficiency, a life of lack.
And God tells us in the
dialogues that there is enough.
In fact, that's
the rich statement
that's made-- there is enough.
Now, if we thought
there was enough--
enough food, enough money,
enough energy, enough oil,
enough of land or
whatever that we
think there's not enough of--
>> Enough health.
>> --enough health-- if we
thought there was enough of all
the things we need
in life to be happy,
we'd begin to find a way to
share it more appropriately
and more freely with others.
What stops us from sharing--
even health, by the way, which
is not shared in this country,
and in most places
on this planet
in the form of health care--
we can't find it in
our hearts to provide
even the minimal adequate health
care for all of our brothers
and sisters on the planet.
Well, if you have
enough money, of course,
you can have access
to all the health
care you could possibly want.
But if you're one of the 95%
of the people on the planet who
don't have that kind of
money, well, then you
take your chances.
What kind of a humane race
would set it up that way?
So we're a very
primitive species
trying to bumble along
in our misunderstandings.
The books, however,
set things right.
All you have to do,
therefore, is read them.
>> Well, we also have to
do something about it.
For example, we have to change
the way we have been thinking.
>> Yes.
>> The difference between your
book and pretty much 99% of all
the other metaphysical work
that's out there is that
the other metaphysical works
says we're here to learn
our lessons.
>> Yes.
>> And your book says
we're here to experience.
>> And remember
who we really are.
To experience who we
really are and to remember
who we really are.
And then, Corrine, to
recreate ourselves anew
in the next grandest version
of the greatest vision we ever
held about who we are.
And that's the missing
element, and that's
what we're not doing, because
we keep on insisting that we're
here to learn some lesson.
Well, if you think you're
here to learn a lesson
and you're clearly and
obviously not learning it,
then you'll keep on continuing
behaviors thinking that,
well, one day, I'll learn it.
If I keep on doing this, I'll
learn how to do it better.
The approach to life
that masters take
is to know that it's not
about learning anything.
We're not here to
learn a lesson,
but rather to remember something
we've always known and are
simply not applying.
No one needs to tell
many people, truly,
what it is like to love, what
it is like to feel compassion,
one for the other.
These are I almost want
to say cellular memories.
These are built-in responses.
There is hardly a person on
the planet, even the toughest,
roughest among us, who
would not feel compassion
under certain circumstances.
The question is, why
don't we feel compassion
under all circumstances,
and for all people?
And so these are responses
that are built into us.
And what we have to do now
is remember who we really are
and what the truth
of our soul is
at times when the exterior
circumstances of our lives
seem to want us
make us forget that.
>> The thing that is most
startling is, it says,
that whatever you came here,
this is not God's test to come
down here.
These are not lessons.
>> Yes.
>> That whatever you have
created in your life you can
change, because you created it.
And you talk about the
process of manifesting
whatever you like.
>> God designed us in
his image and likeness.
And God is a three-part being.
Some theologies called
these three parts
God the Father, God the
Son, and God the Holy Ghost.
And there are other ways of
defining those three parts,
as well.
The conscious, the subconscious,
the superconscious,
if you're into psychology.
Virtually every
discipline, whether it's
theology, psychology,
or raw science,
has some way of describing
the triumvirate,
the three-part beingness
that is all of life.
And what God said to
me in the dialogue
is that we are also
three-part beings,
and that we create from
three aspects of the self.
And those three tools of
creation that we're all given
are thought, word, and deed.
That we create with our
thoughts, with our words,
and with our actions, and
that each one of those three
elements is created
in and of itself,
and when we have
all three of them
together, when we're
thinking and saying and doing
the same thing, then we become
really very, very powerful.
And we produce
results in our lives,
and in the lives of others,
I might add, very quickly.
>> We are talking to
Neale Donald Walsch about
"Conversations with
God Book Three."
And if you hang
out with us today,
you may find out how you can get
anything you want in your life.
So stay with us.
We'll be right back.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We're talking to
Neale Donald Walsch
about the third volume of
"Conversations with God,"
an uncommon dialogue.
Welcome back.
>> Thank you.
>> We were talking about
manifesting anything you want
in your life, and
about how, at first,
of course we all know that
the idea must come first.
Henry Ford didn't
get the car going
until he had it in his mind.
>> That's right, but I want to
correct something, if I may.
It's more than just terminology.
The truth is God says, you may
not have anything you want.
And this is a
startling statement
that's made in the dialogue, you
may not have anything you want.
Because the very act
of wanting something
pushes it away from you,
because if you are expressing
a wantingness for something,
that's a statement
that you do not now have it.
And as you believe it,
so will it be with you.
Therefore, if you're sitting in
a pool of desire for something,
then you're as much as
announcing to the universe
that it's not there
right then and there.
And that, of course,
makes it impossible
for you to experience it in
your life, for your reality is
created by your thought about
it, and by the word you speak
and the actions
that you undertake.
Therefore, the
first thing we have
to eliminate from our mind in
the process of manifestation
is we have to eliminate any
thought that we do not now
have, or, in the
words of some people,
that we somehow
can't have, there's
some reason why
we can't have what
it is we choose to experience
in life, but rather to say,
with all the faith
we can muster,
not only can I have that,
I have that right now.
To really believe
the highest promise
of God, which is, even before
you ask, I will have answered.
So people of
enormous faith never
say I want, but rather
they say, all the good,
all the compassion, all
the help, all the money,
all the love, all
the health that I
choose is coming to me now.
One of the greatest prayers
I ever heard goes like this.
"Help me to understand, dear
God, that this problem has
already been solved for me."
That this problem has
already been solved for me.
And one of the more startling
examples of that in my life
was when I needed a great
deal of money at one point.
And I had some people
who were upset with me
and wanted that money
by a certain date.
And I owed it to
them, and I really
needed to get it for them,
and I didn't have it.
And I did everything I could
think of, Corrine, for it,
days and days and days,
for several weeks, trying
to pull together that money.
It was a large sum.
I called my father, I
called some friends,
I called in all the
chips I had out there,
and I couldn't get it together.
Not all of it.
In fact, only about
a third of it.
And now had come the day that
I needed to deliver this money.
And I said to God, all right,
well, whatever you say.
I'm leaving it up to you now.
I did what I should have
done at the beginning.
I let go and let God.
And I said, OK, God,
whatever you want,
because I can't
solve this by myself.
And the next day, I went
to the post office box,
just doing my normal
routine, everyday things--
it was a Monday--
and I found an envelope in there
that had been sitting there
since the Friday before.
Three days of worrying, and
there was an envelope sitting
there since Friday with a
check from some guy in Florida
who owed me some money for
many years, and he said,
you know it's been bothering
me, and I'm way behind on this,
but I hope you'll
accept this, I hope
you don't mind that
it's several years late.
Mind?
It was the miracle
of the year for me.
But what I learned from that
was, even before I asked,
God had already answered.
I could see God up there
saying, Neale, just
go to the post office box.
It's already there.
Well, that's a very striking
example of something that
happens in many people's lives.
Sometimes in a more subtle way,
but it happens nonetheless.
Often, people discover, if
they can accept the good that's
coming to them, that in fact,
it's not only coming to them,
it's been there all along.
They simply haven't
been able to see it
for all of their disbelief.
>> But does that manifest in
regular, practical matters,
such as suppose I've
always wanted a red Jaguar.
I mean, can I have that?
>> You can, if that's your
highest thought about what it
is you would choose to
experience in your life.
Yes, you can experience
a red Jaguar.
>> But you cannot doubt that
you are going to get it.
>> No.
>> That's the big thing.
>> These are not new ideas.
Norman Vincent Peale
wrote 45 years ago,
if you want a red Jaguar,
just think about a red Jaguar,
and sooner or later, depending
on the amount of faith
and energy you put
behind that, you
will, in fact, have
that red Jaguar.
The power of positive
thinking is not a new thought.
It's been around, that
whole idea, for a long time.
But the real central question
is, why would a person
choose a red Jaguar out
of all the things in life
one would choose to have?
How about this one?
How about I choose to learn,
I choose to experience,
I choose to know myself as
the highest level of love
I could ever imagine.
I choose to touch people's
lives in a way that heals them
forever, that alters their
very experience of themselves
and that gives them
back to themselves.
I choose peace in my
life and for this planet.
I'll take that over
a red Jaguar anytime.
And there are people
now on the planet
who are making those
kinds of choices.
>> Well, the reason we want the
red Jaguar is because we think
it is going to give us peace.
>> Of course.
And happiness.
>> So that you're
skipping over the Jaguar,
going right to the peace.
But I think the most
important point here
is, now, when you start taking
this whole reality of being
able to create what
you really desire,
and go into your chapter
here where you talk about
and ask God what
happens when we die.
>> Well, that's the most
profound question, of course,
in the universe, and it was
the most important question
in the whole trilogy for me.
And God said, even as it is
in life, so is it in death,
or what you call death.
The first thing we have
to understand, of course,
is that death as we
understand it does not exist.
But if we can get past
those terms for a minute
and just use them loosely,
after the thing we call death,
God says, you will
experience yourself exactly
as you do in life.
That is, as a being capable
of experiencing whatever
it is that you call forth.
Only the speed with
which you produce
results will be instantaneous,
whereas in this lifetime,
because of the slow process
of the illusion that we have
created called time,
it may be a little bit
between our thought about it and
the experience of it, whereas--
I'm going to use
another loose term--
on the other side of life,
in that place that we call
the after-death experience,
immediately when
you think of a thing,
that which you choose
to experience
through that thought
is brought into your reality.
So the results
are instantaneous,
and they're immediate.
And that's when we really
have an opportunity
to experience and to
express who we really are.
An instant creator of whatever
reality we would select.
That's what heaven
is, of course,
being able to have whatever
you want right then and there.
>> I love the paragraph--
>> I just caught myself
in a verbal contradiction,
but it's being able to have
whatever you choose right then
and there.
For in the afterlife, as in
this life, if we want it,
we're saying we don't have it.
>> So the big difference that
you're making in the book is
that, in this so-called
physical world--
>> Yes.
>> --sometimes, there
is a time lapse.
>> Yes.
>> And as soon as you
reach the other side,
there's no time lapse.
And I love the way God
describes the confusion.
Tell us about that.
>> Well, people, when they've
moved into the afterlife,
often they don't even know that
they're the thing that we call
dead, because, of
course, they're not dead.
They're very much alive.
And they expected to be
dead, and they're not dead,
so they move into an
experience that looks and feels
and is experienced in
a whole different way
than they might have imagined
that they would experience
death if they had any
thought about it at all.
So here they are,
simply feeling exactly
as they felt a moment ago,
except they may notice,
oh my goodness, my body is
down there, and here I am.
I'm feeling exactly
the same way,
but there I am, and I'm not
over there, I'm over here,
and what is all
this about anyway.
So there's a great
deal of confusion.
But then, after
that confusion is--
and we're normally
sent guides and, I
want to say, angels or
helpers or other souls,
really, who will fly to
us at that moment, maybe
those who have passed before
that we are very fond of
or we've loved very much.
Perhaps our parents or
whoever will show up
at that time to help
us and say, Neale,
this is what's happening now,
and here's where you are.
And then we begin to
experience the joy.
We begin to notice that whatever
we're thinking, wherever
we want to go with the
speed of our thought
is created in our reality.
But even as glorious as
that experience may feel,
after a while, it's
simply not enough.
It could be actually boring,
if you could think about it.
If you could have whatever
you wanted instantaneously,
a very few moments
of that, and you
might start thinking
about larger challenges.
>> Try me.
[LAUGHTER]
>> You'd be you'd be surprised
how one would say, you know,
this is all a lot of fun, but
I think I want to go back there
and try that again and do it
another way and experience
myself at the next
highest level.
Even in this lifetime,
when we have it
all solved, and there are
no more problems and nothing
more to conquer,
the natural tendency
of truly wonderful and
enlightened human beings
is to seek a newer challenge.
We're never tired of
climbing the mountain.
In truth, we say we want it all
to end and all to be smooth,
but the truth is, for
every truly great explorer
and every wonderful mind on the
planet, when the game is over,
they start a new
one immediately.
No one wants to get to
the top of the mountain.
At least--
>> That's no fun.
>> --at least, they
don't want to stay there.
Once you're on the
top of the mountain,
you start looking
around, where's
the next mountain to climb?
>> One of the things that I
thought was so interesting
about that chapter on death
is that so many people go
to psychics to contact
the souls of the departed.
>> Yes.
And they don't have to.
You can contact the souls of
the departed in an instant.
You cannot have a thought about
a dearly departed loved one
without the essence of that
person coming flying right
to you and being right there
alongside of you as part
of your experience.
It's like sending out a
telegram, be here now.
And so you don't need
a medium or a psychic
to contact anyone
from the other side.
Your very thought about them--
you know the best medium?
Love is the best medium
of communication.
All you have to do is
think of another person,
one who has gone before, from a
place of deep and abiding love.
And that love sent out is
received by the essence,
the soul of that person.
And they're right there.
They can hear your every word.
If you listen really
carefully, you'll
be able to hear
their words, as well.
>> Well, there are a lot of
people out there who will get
a great deal of consolation
from that statement.
>> Because it's true, and
truth is a great consolation
in the face--
>> And one of the things--
>> --of all the lies.
>> --you say in the book
is that, many times,
the souls of the
departed contact us,
but we don't believe it.
>> Yes.
>> We don't believe it.
I wish we could go on with
this for another two hours,
but they're giving me a
signal that we're through.
This has been a fascinating,
fascinating conversation.
We've been talking to
Neale Donald Walsch
here, who is the
author of all three
of the books called
"Conversations with God."
Personally, it's my favorite
of three, book three.
I loved it.
I think that you will benefit
a great deal when you read it.
And as I always tell
you around here,
we bring you miracles
on this show.
Keep coming back.
[MUSIC PLAYING]